# Penetration Test Scanning

## 1. Why Penetration Test Scanning is Necessary?

* Our goal is to gain more information about our target by interacting  with it and this is one of the most important phases of penetration testing because it **sets a baseline** for the things you might target next. We want to learn about the topology of the target environment while  scanning, as this will help us understand how different systems in the  environment connect with each other and help you plan your attack. We  also want to understand the different operating system running on the  machines we are scanning.

  As we scan, we make observations and carefully note all of the TCP  and UDP ports open on each of the systems, we can then use this  information to run service specific tools to find additional information, like service vendors and version numbers. **Make a note of all potential vulnerabilities** each service may be suffering from by keeping the version number in mind. If you weren't able to enumerate a  version number, test different vulnerabilities based on the systems behaviours and responses.

## 2. Before You Start Scanning

* Penetration Test Scanning的主要流程：

  a. Perform a network sweep to gain a list of potential targets.

  b. Run network tracing to figure out the topology of the network.

  c. Conduct more rigorous port scans to enumerate OS and service details.

  d. Initiate vulnerability scans on those applications.
## 3. Penetration Scanning Checklist

* The following list is not an A to B roadmap, sometimes you will miss something and have to rescan multiple times, which is normal.
  1. Find the **network topology**
  2. Find the **operating system types** of discovered hosts.
  3. Find open ports and network services in a target
     environment.
  4. Find the **network addresses** of live hosts, firewalls, routers, etc.
  5. Find a list of potential vulnerabilities.
  6. Don’t use tools that **make a lot of noise**; it can potentially crash the host or even make the host aware of our presence, reduce these risks as much as you can.

## 4. A Box Full of Scans

* This part performs a closer look at the different kinds of penetration testing scans that will be necessary to run on your targets.

  1.  **Network tracing** - Usually the first step, when we try to figure out the **topology of the network** which will help us in planning our attacks.
  2. **Network Sweeping** - We try to figure out which of the **addresses in the range **are **in use**. We do this by sending our ICMP packets and listening carefully, if we get a response we know that an address is in use, giving us **awareness of the active systems**.
  3. **OS Scanning/ Fingerprinting** - In this scan we try to enumerate the OS of the target system. This is done by sending a crafted packet which checks for the response of the system. Since every OS has a different behaviour over the network, these specific crafted packets can check which OS is responding. Sometimes we want to be less noisy on the system so you can also perform a passive fingerprinting scan which won’t send any packets but will receive them. Based on the response, you can decide what **OS the system is** and we can also figure out the OS of a system via HTTP headers. Direct and indirect banner grabbing can grab OS data, hosts often **announce their OS** to anyone trying to make a connection to them through banners.
  4. **Port Scanning** - In this scan we try to figure out the different TCP and UDP ports that are open on the system. Primarily there are two types of port scans; **SYN scan and FIN scan**. Remember these scans can be intensive and might bring the system down so be careful.
  5. **Application / Application Version** - In this scan we try to figure out the **different applications** that are running on these ports. Some ports have assigned applications. Ports 1 through 1024 have applications assigned applications but you should still try to figure out the application version using application specific scans.
  6. **Vulnerability Scanning** - In this scan we try to find out if the application is vulnerable to any known vulnerabilities which stem from unpatched or mis-configured applications.

## 5. Scanning Tips

* Perform scans only to the subnets you are allowed to.
* Perform scans on the IP address and not on the domain name.
* Most scanning tools can output their scanning results, use that feature.
* Plan on how you are going to perform the scans and in what order because this can change based on your scope.
* Always share scan results with your team and brainstorm on potential vulnerabilities for that application version, unless you flying solo and conducting the test on your own of course.
* If you are scanning a really large network, then check the firewall and only scan ports that will make it through the firewall rules.
* When performing a scan also run a packet sniffer. It will help you visualize what the scan is doing and how that particular scan tool works. (Not necessarily capturing them in a file but rather just looking at them)

## 6. The TTL Field

* The TTL(Time To Live) Field of IPv4 and the HLF(Hop Limit Field) Field of IPv6 can be utilized to perform a network tracing and to determine the series of router hops between one device to another.

## 7. Traceroute/Tracert

* Traceroute/Tracert : The tool uses the TTL/HLF technique as mentioned above, the tool can be leveraged to show the network path and the related diagnostics information.

[Reference1](https://www.secjuice.com/penetration-test-scanning-introduction/)

[Reference2](https://www.secjuice.com/penetration-testing-scanning-101-2-network-tracing/)