# OWASP Top 10

## 1. What is the OWASP Top 10

* The OWASP Top refers to the 10 most critical risks.

## 2. Details 

* Injection: 

  原理：Injection attacks happen when **untrusted data** is sent to a code interpreter through a form input or some other data submission to a web application. (恶意代码的执行)

  预防：Injection attacks can be prevented by validating and/or sanitizing user-submitted data.

* Broken Authentication: 

  原理：Application functions related to authentication and session management are often implemented incorrectly, allowing attackers to compromise passwords, keys, or session tokens, or to exploit other implementation flaws to assume other users’ identities temporarily or permanently(对认证策略的攻击)

  预防：Requiring 2-factor authentication (2FA); limiting or delaying repeated login attempts

* Sensitive Data Exposure:

  原理：Attackers gain access to the not properly protected data. A popular way to conduct this arrack is **man in the middle attack**.

  预防：Encrypting the sensitive data and disabling the caching of any sensitive information.

* XML External Entities: 

  原理：This is an attack against a web application that parses XML input. This input can reference an external entity, attempting to exploit a vulnerability in the parser. An ‘external entity’ in this context refers to a storage unit, such as a hard drive. An XML parser can be duped into sending data to an unauthorized external entity, which can pass sensitive data directly to an attacker.(程序在解析输入的XML数据时，解析了攻击者伪造的外部实体而产生的)
  预防：Having web applications accept a less complex type of data.
  
* Broken Access Control

  原理：Broken access controls allow attackers to bypass authorization and perform tasks as though they were privileged users such as administrators.

  预防：Ensuring that a web application uses authorization tokens and sets tight controls on them.

* Security Misconfiguration
  原理：Security misconfiguration is the most common vulnerability on the list, and is often the result of using default configurations or displaying excessively verbose errors.
  预防：Removing any unused features in the code and ensuring that error messages are more general.
* Cross-Site Scripting
  原理：This occurs when web applications allow users to add custom code into a url path or onto a website that will be seen by other users. The vulnerabilitt can be exploited to run malicious JavaScript code on a victim's browser.
* Insecure Deserialization(不安全的反序列化)
  原理：**Serialization** means taking objects from the application code and converting them into a **format** that can be used for another purpose, such as storing the data to disk or streaming it. Deserialization means converting serialized data back into objects the application can use.
  预防：Prohibit the deserialization of data from untrusted sources
* Using Components With Known Vulnerabilities

* Insufficient Logging And Monitoring
  原理：Many web applications are not taking enough steps to detect data breaches. The average discovery time for a breach is around 200 days after it has happened. This gives attackers a lot of time to cause damage before there is any response.
  预防：OWASP recommends that web developers should implement logging and monitoring as well as incident response plans to ensure that they are made aware of attacks on their applications.

  

